---
layout: post
title:  "Day 002 - #100DaysOfCode"
date:   2022-10-30 09:30:00 +1100
categories: code #100DaysOfCode update
---

## Update

For day 002 of [#100DaysOfCode][#100DaysOfCode] I decided to satisfy my curiosity with a little problem around regualar polling for a job status and displaying a smooth progress bar. I started with using ruby 3.2 and Sidekiq 7. It was relatively easy to get a job running and a web view. Things fell appart when I brought in the sidekiq-status gem. It seems that it uses older Redis ruby gem commands which are no longer available in the minimum version of the reuby redis gem that is a pre-requisite for sidekiq 7. I downgraded sidekiq and was in a bit of dependency hell trying to make everything work. Sidekiq 7 brings in rach 3.0.0 which works different to rack 2.2.4 which is used by Sidekiq 6.5.7. At one time I could not even get the web interface show up and started to tear my hair out.

In the end there was a missing `bundle exec` when creating the jobs, which meant the latest installed version of Sidekiq (7) was being used for creating jobs but I was running `bundle exec` to run sidekiq and my `make sidekiq-web` which meant there was probably an incompatibility. I also at one point assumed that my redis db may have been incompatible so attempted to clear that out with:

{% highlight bash %}
redis-cli -h localhost --scan "*"

... stuff

redis-cli -h localhost  FLUSHALL
redis-cli -h localhost  FLUSHDB
killall redis-server
redis-server --daemonize yes
redis-cli -h localhost --scan "*"

... at some stage it returned nothing
{% endhighlight %}

In the end not sure if that did anything either. I am right now in the middle of trying to make it work with downgraded gems

{% highlight ruby %}
gem "rack", "~> 2"              # 2.2.4 rather than 3.0.0
gem "sidekiq", "~> 6"           # 6.5.7 rather than 7.0.0

gem "redis", "~> 4"             # 4.8 not sure if I need to change this?

gem "sidekiq-status", "~> 2.1"  # this is the thing I want to make work

gem "webrick", "~> 1.7"         # needed for rack < 3.0.0
{% endhighlight %}

## The code

[https://github.com/saramic/100-days-of-code/tree/main/002_sidekiq_status](https://github.com/saramic/100-days-of-code/tree/main/002_sidekiq_status)

[#100DaysOfCode]: https://twitter.com/search?q=%23100DaysOfCode